Israeli air strikes have hit gaza's
biggest refugee camp uh for the second
day in a row according to the
territory's Hamas run government this
news agency footage shows the aftermath
of a new strike Israel has not said
whether it did carry out this attack but
has admitted to bombing the camp a day
earlier claiming that a senior Hamas
Commander was targeted and killed
Palestinian officials say 50 people were
killed and more than a 100 wounded in
that
strike Peter Lerner speaks for the
Israel Defense Forces I asked him about
this latest strike on the jabalia
refugee
camp did Israel strike the jabalia
refugee camp again
today we are striking Hamas wherever
they hiding Hamas have effectively
turned jabalia into a fortified position
and we conducted strikes against it
yesterday in two different locations and
indeed there is a possibility that we
are continuing to strike against Hamas
wherever there
hiding you've confirmed yesterday's
attack but you won't say that you uh
that Israel um carried out today's
attack why is
that Phil we have to be certain what
types of activities we are conducting
we've already seen um at least one
instance where Palestinian Islamic Jihad
launched a rocket and it hit uh the
hospital Al hospital um uh parking lot
uh in this this case I would rather be
than sorry and so we have to be
confirmed once we can confirm what what
was struck and indeed if the target was
indeed hit then we'll make an
announcement as we did yesterday so just
to be clear um at this stage you don't
know whether Israel struck the jabalia
refugee camp
again at at this time I can't confirm
that but but there is a distinct
possibility that it was us rather than
jumping to conclusions I suggest we have
a bit more patience it's Peter larner
from the Israel Defense Forces well some
foreign passport holders have now been
allowed to leave Gaza a first group of
critically injured Garin has already
arrived on the Egyptian side of the Rafa
border crossing it's unclear how long
the crossing will remain
open people in Gaza have waited for
weeks for this gate to open towards
Egypt and now it
has
within an hour these ambulances were
rushing through according to the UN
thousands of civilians have been injured
in Gaza since Israel began its war on
terror group
Hamas many of them critically wounded
are in urgent need of Medical Care
Egyptian authorities say 81 gazin were
allowed to go across based on a deal
struck between Egypt Israel and Hamas
and mediated by
Qatar on on the other side Egypt has set
up a field hospital to treat injured
Palestinians and thousands of doctors
have registered to
help at the same time Volunteers in
Egypt are trying to get more Aid into
Gaza today 60 trucks have passed
yesterday another 60 the priority is for
medicine to pass we've seen children
undergoing surgeries without
anesthesia these border crossings take
time as vehicles and documents are
checked to ensure safety that adds to
people's anxiety to get across for no
one knows how long the Rua Crossing will
remain
open for those standing in Gaza it's the
only way out of
War well our correspondent Rebecca rits
is in the Israeli uh town of stero near
the Garen border I asked her about
efforts to evacuate the injured and
foreign Nationals across the ruer cross
uh they are going well we hear but they
are slow at the same time it's a
complicated process but it for the first
time uh since this War Began we've we're
starting to see uh evacuees be able to
cross that border we know that at least
some ambulances have crossed already
carrying what is expected to be a total
of 88 sick and injured people across the
border this morning there was also a
List released of some 4 to 500
foreign Nationals or Jewel passport
holders and some Palestinians who worked
for foreign NOS now they are also
supposed to be crossing over today and
we've heard reports that some of them
have and it is expected that hopefully
all of those 4 to 500 people will be
able to cross over today we know that
there is a a bigger list of around about
7,000 Jewel Nationals or other people
who work for NOS that are on various
lists and we've been hearing for from
sources within the British government
that they expect around 500 to 1,000 to
be able to be let out potentially uh
each day in a kind of slow tranch system
we have to see how that will progress
and exactly when we've heard that um
German the German uh Embassy has also uh
instructed its uh Jewel Nationals to
start heading to the Border they weren't
initially on that list that was released
this morning nor were us or UK Nationals
um other countries were Australia Norway
Japan and as I said
some people who work for NOS so we'll
have to see who and how and when the
next list will be published and when
those people will be able to cross over
but it's very positive sign we're that
we're certainly that we're seeing the
sick and injured be able to cross to
better medical tension across the border
okay thanks for that uh let's talk about
this second attack on the jabalia
refugee camp um what are you hearing
about
that at this stage information still
trickling out it's incredibly hard to
report on what's Happening inside Gaza
as you can imagine this is about as
close as we can get we're a couple of
kilometers away from the border we've
been here since the beginning we've been
here multiple times coming back and
forth to this area because this is about
as close as we can get we from here we
can see some of the air strikes
happening in the northern part of the
Gaza Strip in the area known as B hanon
um and we can of course hear a lot of
the artillery fire and uh and other um
Warfare that happening there and even
some uh gunfire happening so to say that
there is some close combat fights going
on on the ground on the other side of
the border now in terms of the jabalia
camp we know that it was struck we've
seen the pictures you saw them in that
report the huge crater that was created
U more than 50 people reportedly killed
in that strike and we do believe that it
has been struck today I spoke to
somebody in Gaza who confirmed that
though we have no number no numbers and
fatalities but we do know that the jbala
camp is at one of the targets that the
ID F uh the Israeli military I should
say are targeting they believe that it's
being used as a Hamas Command Center and
HQ and that there's a huge network of
tunnels underneath which is another
source of their target okay thank you
for that Rebecca Rebecca aritus and uh
in
Israel well we can speak to a journalist
aen baloa who's in Gaza and joins us on
the line welcome back hajm and what are
you hearing about this latest strike on
the jabalia refugee camp
we have information according to the
civil defense and Ministry of Health
that that the Israeli uh strike took
place um today afternoon and that caused
damage of a huge place in
overpopulated and refugee camp it's the
biggest refugee camp in Gaza St uh at
least 50 people were killed and hundreds
were injured um um according to the
civil defense they are not able to
evacuate all um the the people under the
rubble because they have very limited
equipment and there are many calls of of
strikes and and and damages across the G
threat so they are doing whatever they
can and whatever they evacuate in in
help and uh with other local who living
area trying to get out um whether the
the injured or the killed people you
describe this as an Israeli strike
Israel haven't confirmed that this was
them yet um clearly it sounds like
there's no doubt in Gaza that it
was well I mean I don't know yeah I I
don't know if it was confir I mean
yesterday Israel there was another
strike a big one 200 people at least
were killed and two other 200 others
were were were
injured last night and or and Israel
confirmed it I don't know if Israel
confirm this one or not I I haven't seen
this but uh if from the damage that
happened and and the similar in in
different places um it it could tell at
least the ban say it's Israel right um
some people have been allowed out of
Gaza today but Aid into the territory
has been sporadic what is the latest
there well according to the latest
number that 72 uh paans wanted
Palestinians with their escorts left um
from the Palestinian side to the
Egyptian side through ambulances they
are um um um people out of alist where
was sent to the Egyptian side which is
which is checked with the Israeli
authorities as well um 81 were were were
approved but 72 left because the rest
according to the minist of Health um
already died or had surgeries in Gaza
hospitals um along with that um up to
the latest number
355 um dual Nationals or Palestinians
were working with some International NOS
um left um according to the list we are
talking about
450 something that they are uh plan to
leave uh today all right thanks for that
haam haam belala in
Gaza thank
you now journalist Hugh miles is
covering events from Cairo he uh he was
uh here on DW and asked whether it's
likely that more foreign and dual
Nationals would be allowed to
leave well uh nobody knows how many uh
passport dual national passport holders
there are in Gaza but there are
certainly many many uh countries uh who
have got um their their dual National
citizens in in Gaza and they they've
been trying since the start of the war
to get them out uh and um Anthony
blinken the US Secretary of State has
has said that this is a top priority for
him and he's working on it every day and
now we understand that there's going to
be a limited number maybe 500 are going
to be um allowed out so this would be a
um a big step forward and and um uh
Egypt has been um involved in this
process as well together with the UN two
miles in at
Cairo